joining me today is a fellow at the
Manhattan Institute a self-described
secular conservative and the author of
the diversity delusion Heather McDonald
finally welcome to the Rubin report I'm
so grateful to be here thank you so much
Dave I don't know how this hasn't
happened already how did we not you're
on the road all the time you're a hard
man to connect with we've been on the
road together we did Berkeley together
and we survived surprisingly attentive
and polite crowd it's kind of a
disappointment as well you know we had
dinner before and we were like oh you
know it'll be fine if we get some
protest because there's a nice amount of
protesters where it can be enjoyable
then there's like the circus amount
where it's not fun anymore but we were
kind of like oh we'll get something we
got a few but nothing nothing of course
they're so stupid they don't realize
that in protesting somebody they're just
increasing the visibility so yeah if
they really want to destroy all
conservative opposition they should just
stay quiet they don't let us fade into
the woodwork on that note we'll spend
the next hour trying to gin up some
opposition to your ideas let's do it
okay so first off I came to know about
you then you spoke or you were to speak
at Claremont McKenna University back in
2017 and you were gonna give a talk on
black lives matter and why don't you
just tell the people what happened cuz
that was the first time I found out who
you are well I was going to talk about
the fact that there is enormous support
for the police in minority communities
I've spent a lot of time in police
community meetings in Harlem in South
Central LA and for what I hear from
those good people is that we want more
cops we want the drug dealers off the
corner I smell pot in my corridor why
can't you do something about it there's
kids hanging out fighting whatever
happened to truancy and loitering laws
and so I was going to present a
different narrative from the black lives
matter narrative a few days before my
scheduled talk a call went out on
Facebook to shut the fascist white
supremacist homophobe queer for Muslim
folk down we will not allow the fascist
racist McDonald to have a platform so
initially they thought they'd move the
venue because where I was speaking had
too many plate-glass wind
they decided to keep it in what's called
the Athenaeum but I was put into what
was essentially a safe house on campus
waiting for my talk I could hear the
drumming and the chanting grow louder
and louder I couldn't see what was going
on it was a disconcerting experience
yeah and I was escorted into the room
with a police escort through a hidden
tunnel I did not know at the time that
about 200 students had surrounded the
building to prevent anybody from
entering to he attend the talk so I
spoke to an empty room the police were
inside the building at some point they
decided that they couldn't guarantee my
safety and longer because people were
pounding on the plate-glass windows so I
was taken out through the kitchen with
police escort into a waiting police car
and zipped away so I asked you this not
because I know you don't want to play
them no I don't I really don't but it's
but I think it's important for people to
realize that this has happened to so
many people who I know including me and
actually I'm very proud to say that I
spoke at Claremont McKenna a few months
after in that in that very room
yeah and they made it very clear that
the whole point of the night was that
they never wanted what happened to you
to repeat again so they actually did do
what a university is supposed to do but
just can you tell me I mean you strike
me as a totally lovely pleasant person
that that people have been section that
people have the they just make up what
you think and that then you're treated
like this it's just not fun right I mean
no it's not fun you know it really is
some good we can joke about it like oh
we love it and protester from you know
whatever but well with mobs you don't
know what's gonna happen next
yeah and again I am so reluctant to say
anything that can be attributed to a
victim ideology because that is used
against me but I did have a remote sense
of what it feels like what felt like to
be in the French Revolution and hearing
the mob because people in crowds can
become completely irrational so you know
I I don't know that they're making up
Who I am because I well I certainly am
NOT against black lives but my message
to them as they understand it is
tantamount to being against black people
and and what what this the groundwork
for this insane delusion that is used
against speakers is an even crazier idea
which is that students on college
campuses today are a literal threat of
their lives from circumambulate ism and
sexism this is a a delusional idea that
is put into these students heads sort of
K through 12 because the identity
politics is happening sooner and sooner
but it is certainly reinforced by
diversity bureaucrats on campus that are
in a codependent relationship with these
narcissistic students who want to
elevate their status into the top dog
victim on campus you know it's funny
idea to talk at University of New
Hampshire and protesters were screaming
at me in the middle and disrupting me
and they have no problem using their
free speech to infringe on your offense
pH of course and one of the somebody
started screaming that we could be
killed when we walk out of here exactly
I thought we're in the middle of New
Hampshire nobody's getting killed when
you walk out of here and certainly if
you don't be get behave in any criminal
behavior absolutely nothing is but
they've concocted a story in their mind
and it's very hard to deconstruct a
story for these people isn't it yeah I
guess so because again we're in a very
weird position in our culture generally
where the classical virtues venerated
strength and accomplishment perhaps to a
fault
you know because you had warrior
cultures and for for centuries the main
calling for males for accomplishment was
war but the classical virtues again
celebrated heroism we now are in a very
strange position in this culture where
we venerate victims and so if you can
irrigate to yourself some victim status
and certainly the burgeoning category of
gender identity is a mark of these
students desperate to find one final way
of being transgressive that will not be
immediately assimilated into a new dirt
diversity cynic you're but they are
there's no way they're going to give
that sacred a rarefied status of victim
and again there's nothing more tolerant
than in an American college campus if
you're not challenging the orthodoxy but
this is the most tolerant environment in
human history for societies
traditionally marginalized groups it
actively celebrates those traits that
can still get you stoned or killed
elsewhere so to think you know as brown
students said occupying the president's
office well it was hard for them to go
to classes because they were focused so
hard on staying alive at Brown it's
similar to New Hampshire I mean yeah
this is this is certifiably insane
thinking yeah and unfortunately there
aren't enough brave professors right to
push back on this and then it becomes
this self-fulfilling thing because then
the teachers start feeding into it in
the whole eye thing so before we go too
deep on that and I want it I want to do
all your greatest hits here because you
have you have no fear talking about
really what I think are the hot-button
issues of the day but you describe
yourself as a secular conservative and
that is not a phrase that I hear very
often and as I've you know as I come
from the left and I still consider
myself liberal as I've been more
embraced by say conservatives a lot of
people that knew me from way back when
they'll go out but room and they're
there just waiting to turn on you
because they're they're really religious
they don't really like the gays and
whatever else so can you sort of
describe how you came to a place that
you describe yourself as a secular
conservative because I don't think
people really think that exists well I
guess I was always secular I wasn't
always conservative I would have secular
mean to you first off I'm very
unreligious I am to be honest probably
perhaps too fanatically unreligious I I
simply do not agree with the idea that
were overseen by a personal loving God
I find petitionary prayer a completely
narcissistic activity that anybody would
dare think that a personal God would
care about his cancer when there are
people being mowed down in earthquakes
and landslides what I call the daily
slaughter of the innocents
again on a daily basis so I grew up not
in a religious environment and never
even really thought about religion to me
it's an interesting I can retroactively
lis look at my experience growing up and
and be sort of amazed at it it is a
verification of what religious people
talk about with the bicoastal elites
because I grew up in LA I went to a lot
of schooling and the East Coast so I was
in kind of a liberal elite culture
I don't recall knowing anybody who was
religious until I came to New York in
the 90s and started thinking of myself
realizing that I was conservative
because I'd always been a liberal by
default and in that environment
especially with National Review I
started meeting religious people for the
first time what did what did they make
of a secular consider even if you were
liberal in a classical sense but let's
say a burgeoning conservative at that
point what did they make of a secular
person well I guess my first point about
this was was for the American
conservative and I just wrote a piece
saying you know the Republicans and
conservatives who are so closely yoking
conservative ideology with religious
belief are making a mistake because I
know a lot of very smart conservatives
who are not themselves believers either
and to say that the only way you can be
moral is to believe in God I think is a
mistake so I then had participated I
found it in a blog called secular right
that was founded by received Cohn and
others and I never was I was never a
pariah or drummed out of the movement at
all I got some sort of sarcastic
comments from major figures like so
how's that a thief is is something going
Heather right but I can't say that I was
ever really punished for it but I think
I was regarded as a curiosity yeah so
obviously we're gonna talk about so much
of what's wrong with the postmodern left
and the progressives but let's just talk
a little bit about what's going on
the right these days or you know broadly
let's say in the Conservatives the
old-school liberals the libertarians the
recipe I'm finding it to be the
center-right let's say an extremely open
group of people who are really willing
to do this dive into ideas and and agree
to disagree and all of that have you
always found it to be that way
well again I have I mean I know you're
saying you got a little bit of pushback
let's say or did some joking about me
yeah that just joking it was not
delicious and it was not really serious
yes I guess so again i've i'm i consider
myself kind of a late comer to the right
but i don't think it was ever closed
minded I think it's now maybe more
self-consciously
open just because of the growing
totalitarianism on the left so perhaps
people are extra careful to you know
make sure that they're not excluding
anybody but but I don't I think if
you're trying to push back against some
kind of stereotype that the right is a
bunch of of close-minded bigots I've
never experienced that I I just don't
see it anywhere it's actually quite
staggering to me okay so let's let's
just plow through a whole bunch of
topics so we touched a little bit on
policing already yeah and the black
community is there anything else you
wanted to add to that generally well
just the black lives matter black lives
matter narrative is false end stop we
are not living through an epidemic of
racially biased police shootings of
black men the core flaw of any left-wing
anti-cop rhetoric or the mass
incarceration meme is the failure to
find the proper benchmark for evaluating
police behavior inevitably policing is
compared to population ratios so let's
say in New York City about 50% of all
pedestrian stops are of blacks blacks
are about 23% of the population a black
lives matter activist or an academic
often would say that shows the police a
racist
mmm-hmm wrong benchmark the benchmark is
crime policing is crime driven blacks in
New York City commit 71% of all
shootings if you add Hispanics
- black shootings you account for 98% of
all shootings in New York whites or 34%
of the population they commit two
percent of shootings so so that's the
basic fallacy that and and this is a
broader problem right so what would you
say is the root of that the root of this
is that I think the core difference
between a liberal outlook on the world
and a conservative one is that liberals
will only accept structural explanations
for socio-economic disparities they will
not ever accept a behavioral explanation
that there are behaviors cultures that
are different that explain poverty rates
say conservatives maybe to a fault are
not particularly open to structural
explanations and we'll see behavioral
reasons so for instance when you look at
poverty the biggest driver in American
poverty today is having children out of
wedlock if you are a single mother the
chances are really high that you're
going to be poor and your child is about
five times more likely to be poor than
if he were a child of married parents
and there's a whole set of choices for
good or bad that people can make that
almost guarantee that you can become
middle-class it's very simple three
simple things you can do graduate from
high school wait until you're married to
have a child and work at a job full time
any job low minimum wage job 73 percent
of people who do that are not poor so
that to me is the basic difference so
the benchmark problem in policing comes
from not being willing to look at
behavior and and I think that is true
for everything in in society we have the
most dangerous conceit out there is this
disparate impact analysis that says that
any neutral policy that has a disparate
impact on racial groups must be biased
again that is a analysis that only makes
sense if you don't look at behavior so
why do certain narratives then
get sold much more than other narratives
I have my own theories on this but why
is the narrative out there that the
police are racist I mean I didn't did
the media all collude to decide the same
thing and put it out there I mean really
how does how do those how do those bad
ideas then spread well one thing I don't
think it's happening I always get us is
this all Soros I don't think it is
everybody wants a human beings like want
agency right we want one answer you want
one answer and they want to believe that
everything is like from top down I don't
think it's source money but I think
there are means that spread and I think
there are ideologies and I think that
American culture now is very
uncomfortable with inner-city culture
with a certain dysfunctional minority
culture and doesn't don't want to talk
about it we want to turn our eyes away
from it and we have the most appalling
history of racism in this country it is
really unthinkable how blind we were to
the profound hypocrisy that governed so
much of our polity for so long you know
when one can't begin to understand how
how that could not have been obvious but
I think our degree of guilt for that is
now so great and and understandable
frankly that we're very reluctant to
ascribe agency to blacks we want to say
everything the continuing problems the
failure to close the achievement gap the
crime disparities which are massive the
victimization disparities blacks die of
homicide at six times the rate of whites
and Hispanics combined that's a civil
rights problem but nobody wants to talk
about that instead we want to change the
narrative to be it's all white racism
which is a way of infantilizing blacks
of saying there's nothing you can do for
yourselves of getting rid of the acting
white culture you know emulate we should
all emulate Asians I've posed a thought
experiment if blacks acted like Asians
for ten years in all things the same
like negligible rate of out-of-wedlock
child rearing the same thing
radical involvement in schools you know
Drive parental drive study you're gonna
go to Harvard you know nothing else is
acceptable don't worry you may not go to
Harvard if you're eating these droids
that's right well you're gonna have to
be ten times greater than any better
than anybody else to go to Harvard and
you will be right if if the behaviors
were the same and we still saw these
socio-economic disparities then I will
entertain institutional structural
racism and as an exploration but as long
as the behaviors are so vastly different
in in California where we are now the
truancy rate for blacks is five times
higher than any other ethnic group as
long as those behaviors are so different
I think it's premature to say the only
possible explanation is structural
racism do you think this is also that we
just have this sort of self-fulfilling
prophecy now between the media and our
politicians so like right as we're
taping this right now the LA school
teachers are on strike and it's like
well wait a minute I see all these
lefties on Twitter everyone complaining
and teachers need more money above all
except it's all progressives that run
California and LA forever so it's like
these are your guys that have been
putting in all these policies that the
teachers are upset by that
but it's that they just the answer is
always easy it's just more money more
money more money more money and that and
that makes people feel good because it's
always easy to say oh well just give it
more money yeah and then the media does
the same thing to where it's just it's
racism it needs more money and that
there's no actual well there's
substantive debate it's happening online
now but not sort of in the places that
it should happen do you see politicians
having these discussions honestly
anywhere or well no I mean I think again
nobody wants to talk about individual
agency nobody wants to talk about its
behavioral choices and you know this
gets to something we reflect on before
which is the debate around Tucker
Carlson and and him it was a very odd
moment I mean I I love Tucker but he's
taking basically a left-wing position
which is that you know the plight of
rural America or the opioid crisis the
the disengagement of males from the
workforce which is a very serious thing
is a result of eken
Comic policy and there's been people
who've been pushing back against that
National Review David French yeah this
is just in the last 10 days right and I
think a persuasive way which is to say
well you're doing the same kind of shift
of responsibilities as traditionally the
left does which is to say well it's
these large social forces no well
actually again even if we've got jobs
moving off offshore there's still our
individual choices that people can make
that vastly increase their chances of
success again do not have children out
of wedlock studied do not get involved
in drugs don't become a pothead these
are all within individual agency
obviously the left doesn't want to
acknowledge that because there is some
sort of interest in expanding
bureaucracies to deal with dysfunction I
mean I've seen this I've written a lot
about Hispanics in California and spent
time in the berrendo school in Pico
Rivera middle school which is just
crawling with gang counselors and
pregnancy counselors for the social
dysfunction that's happening with the
second third generation Hispanics but
the bureaucracy grows larger and larger
everyplace as a substitute for saying to
individuals you know pull up your
bootstraps and you can do it yourself
yeah there's an odd thing where then the
Conservatives and the libertarians who
are against the authoritarian ISM by
nature need a little bit of
authoritarian structure so to speak I I
had Catherine burr blessing in here
who's a school administrator in the UK
it's taking she she was a teacher in the
inner city in London and she realized
how dysfunctional everything that you're
talking about was and the breakdown of
the family and these kids they were
malnutritioned and they had noise they
behaved horribly and all these things
and now she started her on school than
Michaela school and I went there and
these kids in in-between classes they
have to walk exactly in line they can't
speak during lunch they can only talk
about one topic and there's a you know
anyone could be called on at any given
moment and I thought this is so bizarre
because here this is the right kind of
authoritarianism exactly I thought that
that's actually pretty cool you got to
get them young
right right structure I mean this is
there's charter schools in the United
States like Kipp that do the same thing
you know everything is scripted because
the families are so dysfunctional now
again predominantly single mothers
although there's obviously let me just
put in the disclaimer there are heroic
single mothers out there who are doing
the right thing by their children but
I'm sorry on average I'm not talking
about you individual I'm talking on
average you're it's the worst thing you
could do for your kid not to have the
father at the home but yes this is the
last chance these kids have to get
socialized and the tragedy again to
bring back to the disparate impact idea
something that we've just been going
through with with Trump's Education
Secretary the Obama administration had
this idea that was already bubbling on
the progressive left in education
schools that if black kids are
disciplined more than white kids that
must be because of teacher racism again
you are not allowed to look at behavior
this is the key the left will never look
at behavior and so the fact that black
kids commit homicide at ten times the
rate by teenagers between the ages of 14
and 17 commit homicide at ten times the
rate of white and Hispanic male teens
combined according to federal data on
Thomas I'd which is the gold standard I
mean there's there's nothing you know at
all a wiggle room in this data that type
of disparity and socialization that
leads to those types of homicide
disparities shows up in the classroom as
well as any inner-city kid can tell you
the Obama rule said you may not
discipline black kids more and as a
result kids are running amok in schools
they're attacking their teachers
basically you just put these arbitrary
rules in that clearly don't fit what is
actually happening but it makes you feel
good it makes you blame why it's
everything it's all the the product of
white racism so so yes I'm all for
informal structure if if a family cannot
do it I mean Aris tell again this gets
back to the secular right thing I I hear
that people say well how do you raise a
moral kid without religion Aristotle
said virtue is
habit and I I don't know I was not
raised in a religious family but is it
really the case that a parent says to
his five-year-old son don't hit your
three-year-old brother because Jesus
said not to or is it just do not hit
your your three-year-old brother you
know I think the authority from parental
authority is sufficient and you
acclimate children to a set of behaviors
that are self controlling deferring
gratification by just teaching this is
how we behave and through the
inculcation of habit I I don't think in
raising children I just can't imagine at
what point you need to invoke the Ten
Commandments I think that a lot of these
behaviors the golden rule is something
that Kant talked about as something that
is pretty innate to a understanding that
humans develop of what is needed to
function in a relatively civil society
yeah I have to tell you this is such an
example of why I love doing this show
because just an hour before sitting down
if you I don't know if you know him but
I had dr. Everett Piper on who's the
president of Oklahoma Wesleyan
University and you guys probably agree
on politics at like 99 percent and yet
he's religious and a lot of what we
talked about was from a religious
perspective but that to me is that
that's the beauty of what America is all
about it's like actually on the things
that that matter outside of what your
personal beliefs are you're agreeing on
all this stuff and then you have some
differences on existential questions and
yeah so be it well and and it's also
something that we're now playing with
fire of being able to disagree amicably
I mean I don't know if we should all be
like screaming you know send in the the
fire alarm or the there the fire trucks
but this growing civil violence that is
predominantly on the left obviously
Charlottesville was an abomination but I
would say in terms of sheer numbers of
incidents of is we the the right the alt
right the crazies took a life which is a
changer I mean that's qualitatively
different than anything than you know
following around Tucker Carlson are
screaming at Trump officials
nevertheless the anti-violence is methd
hribal hatreds in a way that I think is
extremely naive if we think that America
is permanently immune from the type of
violence that still characterizes other
societies yeah and nobody on the left
seems to know first off CNN ignores it
basic right and then the politicians
don't say anything about it okay so
let's let's link this to one of the
other things that you talk about a lot
which is sort of what's happening right
now very very intensely which seems like
this new war on men or war on boys how
how is this related to - it's related
sort of in a racial context especially
we're talking about young black men but
we can we can separate those two things
a little bit if you want
well females are determined to think of
themselves as victims - which is
preposterous there is not a single
mainstream institution in the society
whether it's a university a bank a law
firm a government agency a foundation K
through 12 that is not well K through 12
probably not because there you've got a
super abundance of females but but every
mainstream institution is trying to hire
and promote as many females as possible
I know for sure I just it's just
inevitable that I have been the
so-called beneficiary of gender
preferences continuously you know
there's there's no good to admit it know
it disgusts me frankly you know there's
now this whole meme about mammals
thou shalt not put together a scientific
panel of the top cancer researchers if
it happens to be all males you must put
females on that panel this is crazy
who cares I really do not care who
solves Alzheimer's if it's all females
because they're the best so be it but if
it's all males I don't give a damn are
you telling me that if you had heart
surgery you would want let's check out
what the best thing is regardless like
your sexuality or gender or skin color a
bigot are you I don't know I guess I'm
just blind to the travails of females
you know and then look at again theme
now or at least a parody it's very
curious all the institutions that have a
super abundance of females nobody ever
thinks to say well there must be anti
male bias you know anything I see I see
and it's also the case you know in
academia if anybody says well there's
these vast disparities of liberals to
conservatives in academia which I
frankly do think it's kind of a side
issue I David Horowitz yes David
Horowitz tells a story about going to
Columbia in the 1950s and being taught
by Marxists but it didn't matter because
mostly politics stayed out of the
classroom but they were open-minded and
my ideal of education is frankly a pure
ivory tower I think everybody should
just be reading Edmund Spenser's The
Faerie Queene and Milton and trollop and
wallowing in pastoral poetry I think I
shouldn't be even fine I don't think I
should be invited to a college campus
because me talking about policing
is is of the wisps of the of transitory
reality that they'll get to there's time
enough after you graduate these are four
precious Years to take a deep dive into
Beauty into grandeur into sublimity and
to wit into irony into the greatest
expressions of mankind not into
contemporary politics or homeless
politics or whatnot but that's obviously
highly unlikely to happen that that's
fascinating to me because I guess I
agree with the premise that I wish
college could be that thing and then on
the other hand when I go to these
schools and I see so many kids engaged
in the things that we're talking about I
always leave incredibly inspired because
I'm like oh you guys are at least awake
to these issues but I see your point
it's like if they could be in a weird
way if they could be insulated from them
a little bit to get to deeper learning
of the foundational things maybe that
would be better but yes Aristotle and
Conte and Shakespeare and Milton's comas
I mean language that is so sensual that
is just of almost terrifying eroticism
they're not going to come across this
later
and so I'm grateful of the fact that
when I was in college I was a
deconstruction alas I spent way too much
time trying to plow my way through let
me tell you blush by Jacques Derrida and
you know reading Lacan and Paul de man
which was a grotesque waste of time but
multiculturalism hadn't hit yet so I was
in college in the 70s so we read the
canon without anybody thinking to
complain about gonads and melanin so I
could write who cares it didn't come up
it's amazing now you'd think that oh
this is the first thing you ask about a
book you know well do I see myself
reflected there no okay therefore I'm
not going to read it you know please do
not expose me to a writer that is going
to take me out of myself which is
something the Renaissance humanists
craved and yearned for so anyway the
whole gender thing the mantles there's a
past president of the American physics
Society put out a call to members to
nominate for physics prizes and to put
on panels females just the most
egregious blatant discarding of a
meritocratic principle something that is
irrelevant to physics so this is
everywhere and I just reject it
completely and the campus idea that
females are at risk of rape culture on
campus is equally ludicrous if if these
statistics that the campus rape industry
have been throwing around for the last
10 15 20 years were remotely accurate
one to four to one to five females
sexually assaulted during their time on
campus that is a crime rate that is
unseen around the globe Detroit is our
most violent city all four of the FBI's
violent index felonies which is murder
rape aggravated assault and robbery you
put all of those together you get a 2%
violent crime rate rape is like point 1
percent of the population now
obviously the campus thing is over for
years even so you can never you cannot
possibly get to one in 425 if that were
the case we would have seen a mass
exodus of females from co-ed
universities decades ago these highly
sophisticated mothers who were right now
in Manhattan paying $200 an hour to prep
their girl tots to get into the most
prestigious pre-k to set them on the
path to some Ivy League they would be
demanding single sex education you would
not see on every Saturday night the
girls at UVA trooping down Rugby Road to
the frats unless girls are stupid and
they do not they're not strong women
together and there's rape going on and
they're not warning each other which I'm
willing to entertain that as an
explanation but what I'm not at willing
to entertain is the explanation that
there is a epidemic of sexual assault
and females are simply like I don't know
they're accepting it or something it's
just it's very bizarre so what do you
make of how as the intersectional
pyramid that is yeah you know based on
these varying levels of what I would say
you're perceived oppression I just say
real oppression that they constantly are
talking about racism and bigotry and yet
they seem to be the ones enforcing it so
I think the best example of this is
what's happened over the last couple
months with the women's March where it
became very clear that many of the
leaders were either anti-semites
themselves or seriously embracing of
anti-semites and yet these are the same
people who would tell you that you know
everyone else is a bigot and a racist
and the rest of it I guess this is just
the natural outcome of this well it's
hilarious I love it I mean I I love the
internecine struggles on the left right
it's it's hilarious a comedy actually
and I always wonder you know when X left
us get called out for bigotry or racism
does it make them ever think well gee
you know I've been calling everybody
else a racist I know I'm not these are
false claims maybe the other people the
Conservatives aren't as well you know so
I don't know if the New York Times is
called out or even people who I really
respect I mean Nicholas Christakis at
Yale he's a he's a wonderful serious
scholar but he is a man
of the left you know and and even after
he almost got eaten by this month right
so he was mobbed for three hours by
students cursing at him in the most vile
language it's just the most shocking
instantiation of the Cultural Revolution
of these students that have been just
fed their victimology for for the last
16 years and nobody daring to expect of
them civil behavior I hope I totally get
this right but at this moment where
these kids are screaming at him at Yale
one of the girls screaming at him
screams who hired you and it turns out
that she was on the board that helped
hired him that's how bananas the whole
thing is right right but shouting you
know you are disgusting and it just it
was unbelievable but he even after this
happened it's sort of unfortunate he
penned a a missive to the student body
still wanting to confirm his progressive
bona fides and saying well of course I
understand that for minority students at
Yale you know this is a struggle which
is BS knowing no student no student at
Yale it's in a struggle for
psychological safety or anti Haven from
racism Yale its again it is the most
progressive environment in you ministry
so so you know what we've seen with
Brett Weinstein and and whatnot they now
are realizing they're making broader
affiliations yeah well it's funny I
bring when I do stand-up now I usually
bring one of the IDW crew with me you
you should join me for one of them a lot
but I bring bread on several times and
most of my audience now is libertarian
or conservative or old-school liberal
and he still described as long as a
progressive and they love him uh-huh and
and even though there's a there's an
absolute disagreement on plenty of the
issues and we get into all of it from
climate change to everything else the
audience cheers and applauds him and I
always tell him I go Brett you know you
do know that we couldn't get five
progressives to show up anywhere for us
right so that does tell you something
yeah about about the tolerant crew all
right moving on from hot hot button to
hot button next we're a little bit of a
time as you today let's talk about
immigration because this is obviously
the thing at the moment what is your
stance on immigration
well I think low-skilled mass
immigration is not a good thing for this
country I think it's absolutely a
country's prerogative to define who
comes into the country it is not for
people outside of the country to make a
de facto immigration policy by their
decisions to come into the country
illegally and you know the left will not
talk about the effect on Americans wages
it's it's quite bizarre you know say
czar Chavez the farm worker organizer
was completely against illegal
immigration because he realized that it
undercuts the wages of American
Hispanics and blacks Barbara Jordan a
black congressman in 94 chaired an
immigration panel totally against the
levels of low-skilled immigration we had
saying it's it's affecting America's
working classes the hardest and I think
that we're bringing in a culture that is
not in our current environment with its
monolithic flows from the Central
American Mexico it's not assimilating
and what I've been reporting on for a
decade now is the downward assimilation
of the second third generation of
Hispanics into an underclass culture you
know the conservative happy-face
narrative is Hispanic family values well
Hispanics have the second highest out of
wedlock child growing faith after blacks
blacks it's about 71% of all black
children are born to single parents with
Hispanics is 53% that's really high when
Daniel Patrick Moynihan wrote his
extraordinarily present al-ahram about
black family breakdown in 1965 and he
said as long as so many black boys are
being raised without fathers we are not
going to close the economic gap we are
not going to make further progress on
civil rights because these boys are not
being socialized at that point the black
out of wedlock birth rate was 23%
Moynihan thought that was a crisis right
now it's 71 percent for blacks and for
Hispanics it's twice that I'll never
take an opportunity not to discuss
Daniel Patrick Moynihan for a second but
so where are the good liberals on this
are they just on or is it what you just
referred to before which is they know
what happens when they've called
everyone else racist for so long so then
they just cower away and disappear I
mean I suspect it's some version of that
because I've kind of lived through it
myself where are they on this being
immigration Iran out of what like the
family break well almost everything
we've discussed here so far where are
the where are the good liberals of today
well again they will not talk about
behavior that is that that is the
dividing line Lib Moynihan could he
could say look at there are behavioral
at this point from here on out we're
gonna see predominantly bruh Havel not
that obviously in the 60s there was
still just egregious racism but but it
was possible to say although you know
even back then he was immediately turned
into a pariah
so things weren't so great back then if
it was just mobbed and he that that
report which could have if it had been
embraced and brought into the public
discourse would have meant that we
weren't here today talking to write
these phony narratives about the fact
that we still have this achievement gap
in crime gap and incarceration gap I
don't know I think again I think people
feel very uncomfortable with the
continuing racial divide and they've
somehow have lost any confidence in
saying to Black's you have agency and
it's not all our fault
so before we excuse too far off the
immigration thing then how do we do this
conversation right how do we actually do
it right it seemed right like right now
as it stands we're sort of between
either you want a wall and protectionism
let's say or you want open borders there
seems to be very little in between that
even though I think probably 80% of us
if not it's not 95 percent of us want
something that's much more in between
those two things well I mean the the
bromide is well we need comprehensive
immigration reform you know that that's
sort of the safe harbor that you can say
on this I suppose I mean
comprehensive immigration reform is
basically code for amnesty for daca for
the dreamers and usually higher levels
of my family and chained low-skilled
immigration I I've written for will we
also need to verify we need to you know
have employers have to mandatorily check
the work papers are just very easy its
instantaneous they do that they get a
safe harbor against any kind of
liability but I think frankly seeing
these caravans seeing the the mob
storming Border Patrol throwing rocks
trying to scale the fences I'm in favor
of a wall I know the only reason to
oppose a wall is because you think it
works that's why the Liberals don't want
it they you know if they think it's so
superfluous and put it up you know what
the hell but they actually do think it
will be effective and that's why they
don't want it but I think again we need
to have be able to talk about what
low-skilled the fiscal costs that this
mass low-skilled poverty culture that we
are importing is imposing on the
American taxpayer whether it's through
schools you know that all of the again I
see this at the berrendo middle school
in Pico Rivera all of the counselors
trying to get these kids that are
getting sucked into gang culture to try
and keep them on their feet the the
health care costs you know now you have
demographic change so much in California
you have California saying we're going
to have full health care for illegal
immigrants mayor de Blasio in New York
full tax payer substituted health care
for illegal immigrants if the politics
keeps changing this way that's going to
be more and more and I don't know you
know a lot of Americans some Americans
understand that this is just
extraordinarily burdensome on our
society yeah all right we only have
about ten minutes left okay not
everything everything we've been talking
about is sort of exactly what the
diversity delusion is all about yeah but
if I had to pick one thing to end on
here
out of the book what should we go it
there I could do I could do 20 more
topics with you about all of this
but these things are also interestingly
linked together obviously well I would
say the diversity mania the the sort of
equation of the diversity mania which is
present now both in universities and
abroad outside of universities is a race
and gender the most important things
about the self I completely disagree
with I can tell you being female is not
an accomplishment it is not a
particularly interesting status as far
as I'm concerned most important thing
about the self discrimination based on
those characteristics is the defining
feature of American society see tana
he/she coats the american academic Idol
and the Idol of the establishment who
says that destroying the black body is
the very essence of America and third
that any lack of proportionality of race
and gender in any institution is by
definition the result of sexism and
racism that idea now it defines
university culture but it is now
spreading into the sciences that's what
I think is the most concerning and the
most amazing because a lot of optimist
the people who want to see you know oh
this is fine there's all these fire
bells the firewall whether it's a free
market if corporations they'll never do
this or it's science the scientists are
never going to be taken care you know
they'll never take an override any
politics wrong the National Science
Foundation is spending billions of
taxpayer dollars funding gender studies
professors to study intersectionality
and microaggressions in engineering and
math this is insane you have Google you
know firing engineers who dare to
challenge the feminist orthodoxy I have
worked out I'm collecting a series of
natural experiments testing the
discrimination hypothesis when it comes
to gender because again we look at
Google and we see 20% female engineers
at Google and other high-tech firms
the diversity explanation is that's
because Google's gatekeepers are sexist
they are simply unable to spot
engineering talent when it comes with
female gonads so what we need to test
the discrimination hypothesis are
institutions with no gatekeepers that
are wide open and I'm collecting
examples of these and what they show is
is that there are natural differences
between males and females when it comes
to appetite for competition drive and
yes high-end math skills Wikipedia blind
editing it's open to anybody there are
no gatekeepers anybody can edit or write
a Wikipedia entry
let me guess 50/50 man and woman Yeah
right what is it come on down 13%
females the the female entries are
really weak nobody's nobody's keeping
them out I noticed this were Scrabble
championships
nobody's females predominate among
casual amateur homes Scrabble players
there have never been a female Scrabble
championship spelling no that's what the
the geography B's the winners are males
it goes on and on and on
history B's the winners are males these
are things without gatekeepers the fact
of this Silicon Valley the drive that we
see to create these startups you guys in
the intellectual dark web are
predominantly male that's not that there
are not individual females out there
with as much competitive drive as much
empire building let's take risks but one
of the things that got James d'amour
fired from Google for his infamous 10
page memo suggesting that there may be
non-discriminatory reasons for the lack
of 50/50 gender parity at Google he
talked about some of the Big Five
personality traits and he used this
phrase neuroticism and to the lair this
sounded very offensive and he said
females are more neurotic this is a
common term in psychology this has been
around for decades that's one of the big
five traits right and it turns out that
females are more risk-averse and they
worry more and there might be biological
and historical reasons for this yes yeah
so it's interesting I'm sure you know
about this but over the last couple
months where Jordan and I have been
traveling we went to Sweden and now
everyone on the left and all the
Socialists they always point to Sweden
as the place where they're doing
everything right in Sweden right and
Sweden which is done egalitarianism
right there's no doubt about it they
have been completely equal men and women
well now they've found out that for
whatever reason men still want to be
engineers and women still want to be
nurses so now they ran the experiment
properly and that they made a truly
egalitarian society but the post
modernists and the leftists and the
progressives won't let them take the
results of the experiment that they did
right and now they're trying to rejigger
the society again right and it's just
absolutely incredible
it's incredible and again if there's if
there's more females and males in an
institution that's fine and let me just
finish them you know with that would
they go with the conservative to liberal
ratio in academia
if you point that out to to the Liberals
in LA academia that that you know in
some faculties you have a hundred to one
liberal to conservative ratio what they
will say is well a Conservatives are
just not interested in these fields or
they're not as smart explanations that
they will not accept right for why
females gravitate towards modes hands on
relational human centered work and
they're they're just not as interested
in perhaps being coders at 2:00 a.m.
with cold pizza in some ugly computer
science lab that the geeks the science
geeks are predominantly males and
they're probably on the spectrum so what
get over it who cares Big Damn whoop all
right you're super busy so I'll right
we're gonna do this again for sure
because I feel like we just got warmed
up here great but let's end on give me
something positive out of this for the
people that see all this that are truly
worried about it that are emailing me
every day and I care about these
conversations what are the signs that we
might be getting some wins you or that
enough people are starting to wake up to
this craziness well your audience I
think I mean there really are people out
there the universities people are
operating
under terrified silence I I hear from
professors I hear from faculty it is
unbelievable yeah it's like Stasi that's
like it's like East Germany Russia
people are afraid to speak in a
university which purports to be the
model of human discourse but there are
people that are pushing back against it
and all I can say is we are not going to
beat this thing unless we push back
against the narrative that any
disparities in representation are due to
racism and sexism as long as that
narrative wins the push for quotas the
destruction of scientific meritocracy is
going to continue and China is going to
end up whooping our ass when it comes to
technological innovation because when it
comes to science they care about only
one thing can you do the engineering
very strange the people who are obsessed
with our differences seem to want us to
be the same more than anybody else right
very velvety it's been a prize for
Heather I'm sorry this was so quick
we're gonna do it again thank you for
and for more on Heather you can follow
her on Twitter at hmd at Mi
[Music]